The Joe Rogan.
Experience a recent CNN article. That was, uh,
wondering how long it's been around. They were saying, see if you can find this,
um,
was COVID 19 around in humans longer than is currently believed.
They think it might have existed for months.
If not years before it broke loose and became a pandemic. Oh.
Did it mutate? Because it.
I don't know. I didn't read the article. So what.
It's a video, not an.
Article. Oh, it's not. Yeah. Oh.
Let me see if I, you say CNN, is that what you said? CNN.
Fake news. Yeah. Fake news. You heard me. Yeah. <laugh>.
Where'd you learn that CNN. There's still just the library.
The news folks. It's the news.
Leading scientists tell CNN that it's listen. CNN's trying to do their best,
but they, they have perception that other people don't agree with.
Just like everybody else. Leading scientists tell CNN that it's possible.
The virus didn't just come from baths in the past months,
but it may have existed in humans many months,
even years before it grew into a deadlytamp pandemic.
CNN's Nick poton Walsh reports.
By the way, CNN is not doing a good job. I just, I, I think the entire.
What are they doing? Bad.
The incentive like they're,
they're choking out the investigative deep
investigative journalism. It's it's exactly what you just said. The,
the click bait, like, like look at the title. Mm-hmm <affirmative> look at the.
I think they're trying to stay alive. Well.
Yeah, but that's, that's a.
Problem. I think it is a problem.
But I think in the defense of particularly online journalism,
I think they're trying to stay alive. I don't,
I don't think it's a good time for journalism now. What, what I've,
from what I understand,
the only thing that keeps New York times functional is the podcast.
The podcast podcast is huge. And that, that, that podcast earns a lot of money,
but.
That's not. That means they need to innovate. They needs to be,
they need to become a podcast. Does.
It, does it? Well, we need the New York times though.
The problem is they need to figure out a way to make money off of it,
but we need, we need the top of the food chain journalism. Right.
And that's what the times is always represented. We need them.
So when someone is, someone's done something for the times,
it's not so good or flawed. Yeah. Okay. But it's still not they're there.
That one person, that one article, whatever it is is not the times,
the times stands for something. Right.
What the New York times is supposed to stand for. What,
what it always did when I was a kid and does now to a lot of people,
still it' cream of the crop. It's the very best journalism.
It's the very best it's, it's the, the ones that have the deepest insight,
the ones that nail it. And we'd like, it free of bias,
but they're, it's, it's run by humans. You know, this is the problem with CNN.
It's the problem with any news source, but we still need news sources.
But it's run by humans that need high salary.
And there's a huge amount of people involved in making that system.
That is a CNN. So there's several mechanism of innovation required.
First. Like this podcast here podcast in general require very few people to run.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> they can,
now that there's an infrastructure to communicate with a lot of people.
And then there's the Wikipedia model. Yeah.
So like Wikipedia is thousands of contributors that creates
extremely strong factual information. Yeah. And that's not like,
like it is very little money required to run Wiki. EDIA incredibly. So,
so.
There are some journalists out there that are online though,
that are thriving because of the problems with legacy media,
it's an opportunity it represents for God's like Tim pool, my friend, Tim pool,
YouTube, Tim. Pool's a fantastic journalist. He's he's really objective.
You might disagree. Agree with him or you,
you might not find his perspective to be in aligned with yours,
but that guy is,
he holds those journalistic ethics at the highest level. I mean,
to the highest standard with him, it's everything.
And when you read his take on or see him make a take on things,
he is giving you the most, most honest objective take on it possible.
And it's really hard to get that from a network. First of all,
it's really hard to get what he does for a network,
because you're gonna get these giant chunks, uh, where he'll he'll.
He can talk about something for as long as it takes to describe what the issue
is. Whereas CNN has a segment, man, that segment is seven minutes.
You better be done by seven minutes. We're going to commercial.
And then we're coming back with Don lemon and he's got a sassy take on things.
And then Andrew, Cooper's got new glasses. Look at that handsome bastard.
And then they're all gonna talk about and you gotta listen. And it's, uh,
Trump is bad coronavirus, deadly. And uh, holy, Chris, Cuomo's got it.
Let's go to Chris. He's in his basement.
And then you see Chris in his man with Sanja Gupta and they're holding up chest
x-rays you know, they, they, they have their segments, man. Segments are.
Yeah. It's dumb. You have these,
these standards that you've created a long time ago.
And this is the biggest handicap that legacy media has other than their
inability to be free. Like a, how like Tim pool is, they're not,
he's an independent, they can't be free. Like he is,
you have too many working pieces, too many producers,
too many people that are telling you what direction,
the se there's people that bring you the segments. You're a talking head.
There's a lot of going on there, man. A lot of going on there. Well.
I, but you have to innovate and you have to make more, more.
I actually disagree with about, I mean,
I think it's impossible to be perfectly objective or whatever. He's just,
he's just one voice. He tries.
To be perfectly objective. Yeah. But if I look at,
he tries to be as objective as he can be.
No, I know the, the, you need to, uh,
aspire to it and not be polluted by other influences,
but I can see people like, I think I'm OB,
but I have very different views than Tim pool on some things and not others.
Well, there's subjective objectivity. Isn't there.
I don't know. <laugh> only one of us is just does, is it.
Possible? But people can look at things like you have a, an idea,
a subjective idea of what something means when you're looking at it objectively.
So you're looking at a thing objectively. You're being honest about what,
what it said,
but you also have preconceived notions of what each individual aspect of that
certain thing means. And what's good and what's bad.
That's where the subjective aspect of objectivity comes in.
When you look at certain things that happen,
there's certain ways you can look at something and not have a bias,
but look at something and you have a preconceived, uh,
idea of what aspects of it should or should not be tolerated.
And maybe sometimes it takes someone else to come along and say, okay, well,
why do you hold these beliefs?
So, yeah, you're absolutely right.
But the problem is that based on your skillset and your
momentum in history, you might look at a very particular aspect objectively.
Yeah. And not see the bigger picture for sure. So like, uh,
Tim pool has revealed and has focused on certain aspects of problems in the
system mm-hmm <affirmative> and he continues to focus on them.
Maybe not seeing the bigger picture, uh,
that's impossible for any one person to see the bigger picture.
I think like I tend to, I tend to see in, in a lot of things,
the beauty of things, and I focus on the positive. Yeah. You.
Talk about that. Even with viruses, you, and even with.
Viruses there's you can, but that is that not objecti to, I, I,
uh, like if I, beauty is not an objective, uh, word, but I,
I just mean that there's, well, it kind.
Of is what we're just saying.
There's a subjective aspect to your objective view of a virus.
Right. But it's choosing on which parts I focus in on.
And also the other thing is choosing the ways you talk about it.
So the ways you revealed that objectivity, right? You can be positive.
You can be negative, you can be very cold and fact based. You can be, uh,
very flamboyant and very kind of excited, uh,
use a lot of visuals, all the,
all those kinds of things and all of that changes the way the message just
carry. Yeah. Which is why we should have thousands of Tim pool, uh,
as opposed.
To sort of, well,
I think they're gonna spring up out of the void that's been created by this
distrust in legacy media.
Especially now J I don't know if you've been paying attention,
but like YouTube there's so many people like my brother
has not like put the camera on themselves. Right. And say their opinions.
Yeah. You know, say like he,
he is doing like a bunch of reviews of scientific papers. Like they're,
they're all, like, they started a show mm-hmm <affirmative> like,
there's so many just there's thousands of shows springing.
Up, dude. There's 900,000 podcasts.
Yeah. It's crazy. Well, it's over a million now. I think it's hit a million.
When did it hit a million?
Probably last week. I'm for sure. People starting podcast right now.
It's a crazy number. Well, especially now, right? Whether they're on lockdown,
people are doing like the lockdown Chronicles, I think, um, it's,
it's a symbol of where we're going, right? Yeah. It's, you're,
you're becoming look, when I do this thing,
I'm doing this thing four or five days a week,
and I'm becoming more connected with people in some weird way that no one ever
thought it was ever gonna happen before,
where there's people that are listening to my voice right now in their ear while
they're running. Right. A lot, not a small amount.
If you could see the actual number of people right now with earbuds in running
list, sitting to this podcast, you'd be like, whoa, that's kind of crazy.
Stay hard.
You're running.
Stay hard. <laugh> <laugh>.
But running faster right now.
This kind of connection is, is a,
it's a dip into the next dimension. Yeah. That's what this is.
And it seemed like it wasn't,
it seemed like it was just a radio show you're doing on the internet.
But then somewhere along the line, it became this weird thing.
And that's what it is. Now. Podcasts are a weird thing,
especially one that reaches the, the numbers of people that this one reaches.
And for that to be in my hands is a weird position. And I'm a, um,
you know, while it's happening, I'm like, oh, look how strange this is. Huh?
I didn't anticipate this.
I always anticipated this being some weirdo fringe thing that very few
people would connect with, which is why I never tried to censor it at all.
I tried to do a, a vast majority of it completely high outta my mind and,
uh, and hang out with fun,
fun people and just talk and have a good time and not have a different
perspec.
Some people have a public voice and a private voice mm-hmm <affirmative> and I
try to have the same voice. Just be me. Just, just do that. Um, this is.
Yeah. That's why I tell people when they say what,
what what's Joe like behind the scenes,
that'd be awesome if you were totally different.
<laugh> but I just tell 'em it's the same, same guy. It's just,
this is Awesomes a bummer.
Wouldn't it be a bummer if someone was like a super Dick behind the scenes.
Yeah.
And I've you, yeah. That that'd be a bummer or like it,
you don't have to be a super Dick, but it's just a totally different person.
Put.
It on an act. Yeah.
Like a mini you put on that mini skirt. <laugh> Dick off.
The tattoos hug those curves baby. But the point is I, what I think this is,
is a step into the way humans are going.
And this is just one step that we didn't was a step it's a podcast.
I thought it was just like a radio show that you do on the internet, but it's,
it's not,
for some reason it's more involved and more entangled and more intense.
And then, and then also it has an impact. Right.
Okay.